.\" ManPage for bellbird
.\" Contact https://github.com/peterdrysdale/bellbird
.TH man 1 "28 April 2016" "0.1.7-unstable" "bellbird man page"
.SH NAME
bellbird \- a text to speech utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
bellbird [options ] [-f infile | -t "textstring" ] [ -o outfile]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The bellbird program is a text to speech (TTS) utility which converts UTF-8 text files to
speech. The speech data may be sent to the sound system, saved as a WAV file or passed for further
processing/encoding via output redirection. Bellbird supports clustergen and HTS voice files for
the conversion process.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP --version
Output version number.
.IP --help
Output usage string.
.IP "-o outfile"
Explicitly set output wav audio filename. Special cases of the filename are: "-" which
sends to stdout, \%"play" which sends to audio device, \%"none" which discards for benchmarking and
\%"bufferedplay" which sends to audio device via a buffer to reduce pauses between utterances.
.IP "-f infile"
Explicitly set input filename. Special case is "-" which reads from stdin.
.IP "-t textstring"
Explicitly set input to a quoted text string.
.IP "--voice VOICEFILE"
Use clustergen voice at VOICEFILE for tts.
.IP "--htsvoice VOICEFILE"
Use HTS voice at VOICEFILE for tts.
.IP "--add_dict filename"
Add dictionary addenda from filename. Format for addenda may be found in
bellbird documentation file "dictionary.md".
.IP "--startpos n"
Read input file from byte n (int), skipping first \%(n-1) bytes.
.IP --printphones
Print phones to stdout while generating speech. This option conflicts with stdout redirection of speech data.
.IP --printtext
Print text to stdout while generating speech. This option conflicts with stdout redirection of speech data.
.IP "--seti F=V"
Set feature F to integer value V.
.IP "--setf F=V"
Set feature F to float value V.
.IP "--sets F=V"
Set feature F to string value V.
.IP --ssml
Clustergen specific option to read input text/file in ssml mode.
.IP "-b F"
HTS specific option to set postfiltering coefficient.
.IP "-r F"
HTS specific option to set speech speed rate.
.IP "-fm F"
HTS specific option to add (or subtract) F semitones to speech pitch.
.IP "-u F"
HTS specific option to alter voiced/unvoiced threshold.
.IP "-jm F"
HTS specific option to alter global variance weight for spectrum.
.IP "-jf F"
HTS specific option to alter global variance weight for logarithm of F0.
.SH BUGS
Bugs should be reported to the bellbird issue tracker at https://github.com/peterdrysdale/bellbird.
.SH AUTHOR
The contributors to Bellbird (https://github.com/peterdrysdale/bellbird)

