Building and Installation
=========================

Bellbird contains the following build prerequisites:
  - Gnu Make
  - ALSA development libraries (optional linux only, known as `libasound2-dev` on Debian and derivative systems)
  - C compiler (gcc 4.7,4.8,4.9,5.1,5.2,5.3 and clang 3.3,3.4,3.5,3.6,3.7 have most recently been tested)

## Build for linux with autotools

Bellbird is typically built with autotools for system wide deployments.

If Bellbird is obtained from a Version Control System (such as a git repository),
automake and libtool are required to generate the configure script. On Debian
and derivative systems these tools are in `automake`, `libtool` and `autotools-dev`
packages. The `configure` script can be generated using:

    ./autogen.sh

Bellbird can be built using:

    ./configure
    make

Bellbird can be installed using:

    make install

The configure script follows GNU conventions, therefore `make install`
will install all the files in `/usr/local/bin`, `/usr/local/lib` etc.
You can specify an installation prefix other than `/usr/local` using
`--prefix`, for instance `--prefix=$HOME`.

## Build for linux with cmake

Building bellbird with cmake is configured by default for use by developers
or users which do not require system wide deployment. It builds a single monolithic
program binary. This allows multiple different binaries to be stored and compared without
concern of changing links to Bellbird's internal libraries.

If Bellbird is obtained form a Version Control System (such as a git repository),
the `cmake` package is required to generate the make script. The make script is generated by

    cmake .

Bellbird is then built using:

    make

The `bellbird` binary is then available to be relocated by the user as they see fit.

## Build for win32 with cmake via linux system

Bellbird supports cross compiling for win32 using a linux build environment.

Cross-compiling requires `cmake` and `mingw-w64-gcc` be installed on Arch system (or their Debian
equivalents on Debian and derivatives). The make script is generated by

    cmake -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=toolchain-mingw64.cmake -DENABLE_ALSA=OFF .

Bellbird is then built using:

    make

The `bellbird.exe` binary is then available for use on win32 systems.

NB:- The output switch '-o play' is not available for win32 systems since this
build does not include a sound driver at this time. Output to WAV file or STDOUT is
supported. Commandline redirection from `bellbird.exe` to `Lame for windows` is easy and is currently
being used by some windows users of Bellbird.

